Modules/How to debug k6 load testing scripts.md, before:

# How to debug k6 load testing scripts
While the k6 metrics help you in [understanding what happened in a k6 test](Understanding%20k6%20results.md), you may need more detailed information when you're in the process of writing your load testing script. In this section, you'll learn what you can do to figure out why your script is failing.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Zln_TWOuoho" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
*In this k6 Office Hours, Tom Miseur and Nicole van der Hoeven demonstrate different ways to debug a k6 load testing script.*

There are a few things you can add to your script that can help you determine what's happening at which point in the script.

### Add checks

You already learned that [adding checks to your script](Adding%20checks%20to%20your%20script.md) helps you identify issues during text execution, but they can be useful during debugging as well. It's good practice to include checks for every major action your script makes, so that it's clear where the issue lies.

Consider the script below.

```js
import http from 'k6/http';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];

    http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
}
```

In the script, two simple arrays are declared: one containing usernames, and one containing passwords. The script chooses one pair from those arrays randomly, and then passes them onto an HTTP POST request.

When you run this script, you'll notice that no errors are returned:

```shell

          /\      |‾‾| /‾‾/   /‾‾/   
     /\  /  \     |  |/  /   /  /    
    /  \/    \    |     (   /   ‾‾\  
   /          \   |  |\  \ |  (‾)  | 
  / __________ \  |__| \__\ \_____/ .io

  execution: local
     script: testdata-simple.js
     output: -

  scenarios: (100.00%) 1 scenario, 1 max VUs, 10m30s max duration (incl. graceful stop):
           * default: 1 iterations for each of 1 VUs (maxDuration: 10m0s, gracefulStop: 30s)


running (00m01.1s), 0/1 VUs, 1 complete and 0 interrupted iterations
default ✓ [======================================] 1 VUs  00m01.1s/10m0s  1/1 iters, 1 per VU

     data_received..................: 6.3 kB 5.5 kB/s
     data_sent......................: 839 B  743 B/s
     http_req_blocked...............: avg=424.56ms min=248.87ms med=424.56ms max=600.26ms p(90)=565.12ms p(95)=582.69ms
     http_req_connecting............: avg=156.1ms  min=131.71ms med=156.1ms  max=180.49ms p(90)=175.61ms p(95)=178.05ms
     http_req_duration..............: avg=139.17ms min=130.49ms med=139.17ms max=147.84ms p(90)=146.1ms  p(95)=146.97ms
       { expected_response:true }...: avg=130.49ms min=130.49ms med=130.49ms max=130.49ms p(90)=130.49ms p(95)=130.49ms
     http_req_failed................: 50.00% ✓ 1        ✗ 1  
     http_req_receiving.............: avg=84.99µs  min=74µs     med=84.99µs  max=96µs     p(90)=93.8µs   p(95)=94.9µs  
     http_req_sending...............: avg=203µs    min=91µs     med=203µs    max=315µs    p(90)=292.59µs p(95)=303.79µs
     http_req_tls_handshaking.......: avg=209.81ms min=0s       med=209.81ms max=419.63ms p(90)=377.66ms p(95)=398.65ms
     http_req_waiting...............: avg=138.88ms min=130.08ms med=138.88ms max=147.67ms p(90)=145.91ms p(95)=146.79ms
     http_reqs......................: 2      1.771779/s
     iteration_duration.............: avg=1.12s    min=1.12s    med=1.12s    max=1.12s    p(90)=1.12s    p(95)=1.12s   
     iterations.....................: 1      0.885889/s
     vus............................: 1      min=1      max=1
     vus_max........................: 1      min=1      max=1
```

There's nothing there that indicates an error, yet there is one.

To find it, add a check to see what the response returned is.

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
```

The above script now checks whether the response returned is an HTTP 200.

Run that script, and you'll see a significant change in the end-of-test summary:

```shell
     ✗ is status 200
      ↳  0% — ✓ 0 / ✗ 1
```

It turns out that the script does not return an HTTP 200 as expected, but that was difficult to find without the check. Adding the check identifies that there is a problem.

But what's going on? 

### Add logging

Since the script uses test data, it could very well be that the username and password are incorrect. Maybe the combination is what causes an authentication error. In this case, there are only three elements in each username and password array, so it wouldn't be too difficult to test them all manually. But what if you had hundreds of them?

In that case, you can try adding logging at specific parts of your script by using `console.log()`. The script below shows this statement in action:

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];
    console.log('username: ' + username, ' / password: ' + password);

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
}
```

The `console.log()` statement prints out the exact combination used, like this:

```shell
INFO[0000] username: guest  / password: 12345          source=console
```

That way, you know exactly which combination to try. Perhaps the username or the password is incorrect, or perhaps both. Either way, adding logs to your script help you understand the value of key variables your script uses.

```ad-warning
title: Disable logging during load tests
`console.log()` can be very resource-intensive, and too much logging can affect your test results. Comment out logging as much as possible to avoid high resource utilization during test execution.
```

Now, imagine you try to log into the app using the username and password selected by the script (`guest` and `12345`) and it doesn't work. Aha! The credentials were wrong to begin with. You verify that the other two accounts you had work.

Remove the third `guest` credentials and modify the random number to return only `0` or `1`:

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234'];

export default function() {

    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 2);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];
	console.log('username: ' + username, ' / password: ' + password);

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
```

When you re-run that script, you may notice that despite the corrected credentials, it still fails. This is a good thing! It means you've solved the first error and can begin working on the second.

What else could be wrong? What response is being returned, if not an HTTP 200?

### The HTTP debug flag

To find out exactly what the request is returning, you can use the `--http-debug` flag. Run the test like this:

```shell
k6 run test.js --http-debug
```

This time, the output includes some new information:

```shell
          /\      |‾‾| /‾‾/   /‾‾/   
     /\  /  \     |  |/  /   /  /    
    /  \/    \    |     (   /   ‾‾\  
   /          \   |  |\  \ |  (‾)  | 
  / __________ \  |__| \__\ \_____/ .io

  execution: local
     script: testdata-simple.js
     output: -

  scenarios: (100.00%) 1 scenario, 1 max VUs, 10m30s max duration (incl. graceful stop):
           * default: 1 iterations for each of 1 VUs (maxDuration: 10m0s, gracefulStop: 30s)

INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Accept-Encoding: gzip

  group= iter=0 request_id=34a024e9-d51d-41e6-5695-a4a465b12978 scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Response:
HTTP/1.1 308 Permanent Redirect
Content-Length: 164
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:29:13 GMT
Location: https://test.k6.io/login.php

  group= iter=0 request_id=34a024e9-d51d-41e6-5695-a4a465b12978 scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Referer: http://test.k6.io/login.php
Accept-Encoding: gzip

  group= iter=0 request_id=d33e02d3-0ac5-46cd-4437-45650f2c052e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0001] Response:
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=UTF-8
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:29:14 GMT
Set-Cookie: uid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:29:14 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
Set-Cookie: sid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:29:14 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.6.40

  group= iter=0 request_id=d33e02d3-0ac5-46cd-4437-45650f2c052e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
```

```ad-warning
title: Use HTTP-debug only while debugging
`http-debug` can be quite noisy, so avoid using it for longer or larger tests. It is best used for troubleshooting while writing a script.
```

The end-of-test summary now includes information on 2 requests and 2 responses. But wait a minute. Doesn't the script have only one request?

Analyzing the output further, you can see what happened:
- k6 sent an initial POST request.
- The server responded with an HTTP 308 redirect.
- k6 sent another POST, prompted by the redirect.
- The server responded with an HTTP 403 Forbidden.

Even though the script only contains a single request, the server's response prompted k6 to make a redirected request, which ultimately failed. [HTTP 403 Forbidden](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/403) is an error relating to an authentication issue. This error confirms the theory of an authentication error.

But *why* is there an authentication error?

To get even more information, run the script again, this time requesting a full HTTP debug:

```shell
k6 run test.js --http-debug=full
```

This time, you see not just the response and request headers but also the request and response *bodies*:

```shell
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Accept-Encoding: gzip

login=user&password=userpw  group= iter=0 request_id=9b3c2dd9-8c2a-49bf-7a92-713c757d1a3a scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Response:
HTTP/1.1 308 Permanent Redirect
Content-Length: 164
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:35:34 GMT
Location: https://test.k6.io/login.php

<html>
<head><title>308 Permanent Redirect</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>308 Permanent Redirect</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx</center>
</body>
</html>
  group= iter=0 request_id=9b3c2dd9-8c2a-49bf-7a92-713c757d1a3a scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Referer: http://test.k6.io/login.php
Accept-Encoding: gzip

login=user&password=userpw  group= iter=0 request_id=3d0d9247-b93e-47f0-6dee-2f0a3420ca4e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0001] Response:
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=UTF-8
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:35:35 GMT
Set-Cookie: uid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:35:35 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
Set-Cookie: sid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:35:35 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.6.40

34
error: invalid csrf token
token: <not set>
session: 
0
```

The response body for the HTTP 403 reveals the issue: `error: invalid csrf token`.

The script posts a username and password, but no CSRF token! Bingo.

CSRF ([Cross-Site Request Forgery](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)) tokens are used to improve security by preventing attackers from hijacking a user's session. It appears the application requires a CSRF token that the script doesn't yet have. To get the CSRF token, you can create an initial request to get `https://test.k6.io/` and parse the response for that token. We'll cover that in the next section.

## Test your knowledge

### Question 1

What's the best way to verify whether an application returns a PDF file in response to a request sent by your script?

A: Add a check based on the response body size.
B: Use the `http-debug` flag to try to read the content of the PDF.
C: Add a `console.log()` statement after the request is made.

Answer: A

### Question 2

In the script used on this page, a random number is used to select a user account from arrays. How could you find out what the value of the random number is each time you run the script?

A: 

```js
check(response, {
        'random number selected': (r) => r.rand === 0,
    })
```

B: `k6 run test.js --http-debug="rand"`
C: `console.log('rand', rand);`

Answer: C

### Question 3

Why should you disable as much logging as possible during a ramped-up load test?

A: You should never do any logging when you're running a proper test.
B: Unnecessary logging eats up resources on the load generator.
C: Using `http-debug` is a better choice for use during a load test.

Answer: B

Commit message:

Finished adding explanations to answers

Modules/How to debug k6 load testing scripts.md, after:

# How to debug k6 load testing scripts
While the k6 metrics help you in [understanding what happened in a k6 test](Understanding%20k6%20results.md), you may need more detailed information when you're in the process of writing your load testing script. In this section, you'll learn what you can do to figure out why your script is failing.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Zln_TWOuoho" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
*In this k6 Office Hours, Tom Miseur and Nicole van der Hoeven demonstrate different ways to debug a k6 load testing script.*

There are a few things you can add to your script that can help you determine what's happening at which point in the script.

### Add checks

You already learned that [adding checks to your script](Adding%20checks%20to%20your%20script.md) helps you identify issues during text execution, but they can be useful during debugging as well. It's good practice to include checks for every major action your script makes, so that it's clear where the issue lies.

Consider the script below.

```js
import http from 'k6/http';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];

    http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
}
```

In the script, two simple arrays are declared: one containing usernames, and one containing passwords. The script chooses one pair from those arrays randomly, and then passes them onto an HTTP POST request.

When you run this script, you'll notice that no errors are returned:

```shell

          /\      |‾‾| /‾‾/   /‾‾/   
     /\  /  \     |  |/  /   /  /    
    /  \/    \    |     (   /   ‾‾\  
   /          \   |  |\  \ |  (‾)  | 
  / __________ \  |__| \__\ \_____/ .io

  execution: local
     script: testdata-simple.js
     output: -

  scenarios: (100.00%) 1 scenario, 1 max VUs, 10m30s max duration (incl. graceful stop):
           * default: 1 iterations for each of 1 VUs (maxDuration: 10m0s, gracefulStop: 30s)


running (00m01.1s), 0/1 VUs, 1 complete and 0 interrupted iterations
default ✓ [======================================] 1 VUs  00m01.1s/10m0s  1/1 iters, 1 per VU

     data_received..................: 6.3 kB 5.5 kB/s
     data_sent......................: 839 B  743 B/s
     http_req_blocked...............: avg=424.56ms min=248.87ms med=424.56ms max=600.26ms p(90)=565.12ms p(95)=582.69ms
     http_req_connecting............: avg=156.1ms  min=131.71ms med=156.1ms  max=180.49ms p(90)=175.61ms p(95)=178.05ms
     http_req_duration..............: avg=139.17ms min=130.49ms med=139.17ms max=147.84ms p(90)=146.1ms  p(95)=146.97ms
       { expected_response:true }...: avg=130.49ms min=130.49ms med=130.49ms max=130.49ms p(90)=130.49ms p(95)=130.49ms
     http_req_failed................: 50.00% ✓ 1        ✗ 1  
     http_req_receiving.............: avg=84.99µs  min=74µs     med=84.99µs  max=96µs     p(90)=93.8µs   p(95)=94.9µs  
     http_req_sending...............: avg=203µs    min=91µs     med=203µs    max=315µs    p(90)=292.59µs p(95)=303.79µs
     http_req_tls_handshaking.......: avg=209.81ms min=0s       med=209.81ms max=419.63ms p(90)=377.66ms p(95)=398.65ms
     http_req_waiting...............: avg=138.88ms min=130.08ms med=138.88ms max=147.67ms p(90)=145.91ms p(95)=146.79ms
     http_reqs......................: 2      1.771779/s
     iteration_duration.............: avg=1.12s    min=1.12s    med=1.12s    max=1.12s    p(90)=1.12s    p(95)=1.12s   
     iterations.....................: 1      0.885889/s
     vus............................: 1      min=1      max=1
     vus_max........................: 1      min=1      max=1
```

There's nothing there that indicates an error, yet there is one.

To find it, add a check to see what the response returned is.

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
```

The above script now checks whether the response returned is an HTTP 200.

Run that script, and you'll see a significant change in the end-of-test summary:

```shell
     ✗ is status 200
      ↳  0% — ✓ 0 / ✗ 1
```

It turns out that the script does not return an HTTP 200 as expected, but that was difficult to find without the check. Adding the check identifies that there is a problem.

But what's going on? 

### Add logging

Since the script uses test data, it could very well be that the username and password are incorrect. Maybe the combination is what causes an authentication error. In this case, there are only three elements in each username and password array, so it wouldn't be too difficult to test them all manually. But what if you had hundreds of them?

In that case, you can try adding logging at specific parts of your script by using `console.log()`. The script below shows this statement in action:

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user', 'guest'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234', '12345'];

export default function() {
    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 3);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];
    console.log('username: ' + username, ' / password: ' + password);

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
}
```

The `console.log()` statement prints out the exact combination used, like this:

```shell
INFO[0000] username: guest  / password: 12345          source=console
```

That way, you know exactly which combination to try. Perhaps the username or the password is incorrect, or perhaps both. Either way, adding logs to your script help you understand the value of key variables your script uses.

```ad-warning
title: Disable logging during load tests
`console.log()` can be very resource-intensive, and too much logging can affect your test results. Comment out logging as much as possible to avoid high resource utilization during test execution.
```

Now, imagine you try to log into the app using the username and password selected by the script (`guest` and `12345`) and it doesn't work. Aha! The credentials were wrong to begin with. You verify that the other two accounts you had work.

Remove the third `guest` credentials and modify the random number to return only `0` or `1`:

```js
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';

let usernameArr = ['admin', 'test_user'];
let passwordArr = ['123', '1234'];

export default function() {

    // Get random username and password from array
    let rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * 2);
    let username = usernameArr[rand];
    let password = passwordArr[rand];
	console.log('username: ' + username, ' / password: ' + password);

    let response = http.post('http://test.k6.io/login.php', { login: username, password: password });
    check(response, {
        'is status 200': (r) => r.status === 200,
    })
}
```

When you re-run that script, you may notice that despite the corrected credentials, it still fails. This is a good thing! It means you've solved the first error and can begin working on the second.

What else could be wrong? What response is being returned, if not an HTTP 200?

### The HTTP debug flag

To find out exactly what the request is returning, you can use the `--http-debug` flag. Run the test like this:

```shell
k6 run test.js --http-debug
```

This time, the output includes some new information:

```shell
          /\      |‾‾| /‾‾/   /‾‾/   
     /\  /  \     |  |/  /   /  /    
    /  \/    \    |     (   /   ‾‾\  
   /          \   |  |\  \ |  (‾)  | 
  / __________ \  |__| \__\ \_____/ .io

  execution: local
     script: testdata-simple.js
     output: -

  scenarios: (100.00%) 1 scenario, 1 max VUs, 10m30s max duration (incl. graceful stop):
           * default: 1 iterations for each of 1 VUs (maxDuration: 10m0s, gracefulStop: 30s)

INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Accept-Encoding: gzip

  group= iter=0 request_id=34a024e9-d51d-41e6-5695-a4a465b12978 scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Response:
HTTP/1.1 308 Permanent Redirect
Content-Length: 164
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:29:13 GMT
Location: https://test.k6.io/login.php

  group= iter=0 request_id=34a024e9-d51d-41e6-5695-a4a465b12978 scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Referer: http://test.k6.io/login.php
Accept-Encoding: gzip

  group= iter=0 request_id=d33e02d3-0ac5-46cd-4437-45650f2c052e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0001] Response:
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=UTF-8
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:29:14 GMT
Set-Cookie: uid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:29:14 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
Set-Cookie: sid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:29:14 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.6.40

  group= iter=0 request_id=d33e02d3-0ac5-46cd-4437-45650f2c052e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
```

```ad-warning
title: Use HTTP-debug only while debugging
`http-debug` can be quite noisy, so avoid using it for longer or larger tests. It is best used for troubleshooting while writing a script.
```

The end-of-test summary now includes information on 2 requests and 2 responses. But wait a minute. Doesn't the script have only one request?

Analyzing the output further, you can see what happened:
- k6 sent an initial POST request.
- The server responded with an HTTP 308 redirect.
- k6 sent another POST, prompted by the redirect.
- The server responded with an HTTP 403 Forbidden.

Even though the script only contains a single request, the server's response prompted k6 to make a redirected request, which ultimately failed. [HTTP 403 Forbidden](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/403) is an error relating to an authentication issue. This error confirms the theory of an authentication error.

But *why* is there an authentication error?

To get even more information, run the script again, this time requesting a full HTTP debug:

```shell
k6 run test.js --http-debug=full
```

This time, you see not just the response and request headers but also the request and response *bodies*:

```shell
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Accept-Encoding: gzip

login=user&password=userpw  group= iter=0 request_id=9b3c2dd9-8c2a-49bf-7a92-713c757d1a3a scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Response:
HTTP/1.1 308 Permanent Redirect
Content-Length: 164
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:35:34 GMT
Location: https://test.k6.io/login.php

<html>
<head><title>308 Permanent Redirect</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>308 Permanent Redirect</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx</center>
</body>
</html>
  group= iter=0 request_id=9b3c2dd9-8c2a-49bf-7a92-713c757d1a3a scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0000] Request:
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: test.k6.io
User-Agent: k6/0.36.0 (https://k6.io/)
Content-Length: 26
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Referer: http://test.k6.io/login.php
Accept-Encoding: gzip

login=user&password=userpw  group= iter=0 request_id=3d0d9247-b93e-47f0-6dee-2f0a3420ca4e scenario=default source=http-debug vu=1
INFO[0001] Response:
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: text/plain;charset=UTF-8
Date: Tue, 01 Feb 2022 14:35:35 GMT
Set-Cookie: uid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:35:35 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
Set-Cookie: sid=bad; expires=Tue, 01-Feb-2022 15:35:35 GMT; Max-Age=3600; path=/; domain=test.k6.io; httponly
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.6.40

34
error: invalid csrf token
token: <not set>
session: 
0
```

The response body for the HTTP 403 reveals the issue: `error: invalid csrf token`.

The script posts a username and password, but no CSRF token! Bingo.

CSRF ([Cross-Site Request Forgery](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)) tokens are used to improve security by preventing attackers from hijacking a user's session. It appears the application requires a CSRF token that the script doesn't yet have. To get the CSRF token, you can create an initial request to get `https://test.k6.io/` and parse the response for that token. We'll cover that in the next section.

## Test your knowledge

### Question 1

What's the best way to verify whether an application returns a PDF file in response to a request sent by your script?

A: Add a check based on the response body size.
B: Use the `http-debug` flag to try to read the content of the PDF.
C: Add a `console.log()` statement after the request is made.

### Question 2

In the script used on this page, a random number is used to select a user account from arrays. How could you find out what the value of the random number is each time you run the script?

A: 

```js
check(response, {
        'random number selected': (r) => r.rand === 0,
    })
```

B: `k6 run test.js --http-debug="rand"`
C: `console.log('rand', rand);`

### Question 3

Why should you disable as much logging as possible during a ramped-up load test?

A: You should never do any logging when you're running a proper test.
B: Unnecessary logging eats up resources on the load generator.
C: Using `http-debug` is a better choice for use during a load test.

### Answers

1. A. The `http-debug` and `console.log` approaches may be unnecessarily verbose and taxing on load generator resourecs. If you know that a PDF file is significantly larger than the size of a response returned without a PDF, you can use response body size to verify the PDF.
2. C. `console.log()` is great for use cases like this, especially while troubleshooting or debugging a script.
3. B. Writing too much information to logs may itself be a performance bottleneck within the load generator, so be juidicious about the information you print and save.
